---
title: Why Russia?
layout: blog 
permalink: /studyinrussia.html
tag: studyinrussia
---
This question always comes up in conversations, and it's not always easy to give an answer. The reason for that is that there isn't just one answer. My partner and I had finished school and were looking for opportunities to study abroad. Australia? Nope, too expensive. Germany? Affordable education, but living costs there were too high for us. We had basically researched most countries and had already given up on the whole idea of studying abroad. We had everything planned out to to move to Buenos Aires and study there. When one day he tells me, "What about Russia?" I didn't really think much of it, but we started researching universities, looking at costs and opportunities for scholarships. It turns out, we had missed the deadline for receiving an scholarship, but there was still hope. We could do a preparatory course, one year and a half, and then apply for the scholarship. So, that's what we did.

This whole thing happened on August, and the course start date was on February/March. We had less than 6 months to make some money to pay for tuition fees + plane tickets (our parents helped us out, of course, but we did our part) and do all the paperwork. Those were some very long months. We'd go sell lunches to the people working in the government offices, Mondays to Fridays. And on the weekends, we'd sell sandwiches and other things in a park near my house. Writing this down, it doesn't sound like much, but it was quite tiring. You have to consider the fact that we're both introverts, so walking up to a random stranger to offer them something is not something that comes to us naturally. Besides, cooking and preparing all the food takes more time than one might think.

All the paperwork is another story, but this was also very stressful. When all was done and we were finally accepted by the university, we were so happy, but this doesn't end here. In order to receive our visa, we needed an invitation letter from the university, and they sure took their time sending it... The problem was, we had already bought the plane tickets, and were running out of time. We had only one week and a half left, and still hadn't heard from them. I don't know what we'd do if we lost our plane... Finally, they sent the invitation, but only for one of us! We figured they'd send the other one very soon, so we bought tickets to Buenos Aires (we had to get our visa there). Only 3 days to pack and say goodbye to our family. After all those months and the hard work, we were indeed going to Russia. We were happy, but mostly sad saying goodbye, not knowing when we'd see our family again. 

Still, we hadn't received the other invitation letter. We got the email with it when we were on the bus to Buenos Aires. And it was the last possible day to go to the embassy because it takes 5 days to get the visa. We got there on Monday and were supposed to receive the visa on Friday because the plane left on Sunday. 

Guess what? The bus got to Buenos Aires very late, and there was almost no time left to get to the embassy. First we had to go to a friend's house, where we'd be staying that week, to leave our luggage (it was a lot!) So we rushed there, on subway and then train, each carrying two suitcases and a backpack. Then we rushed to the embassy, but there was no way we'd make in time. We felt stupid for not going there directly, but it was too late to do anything about it. However, it turns out, the embassy closes half an hour later than we thought. So, we were fine! Everything went according to plan, it seems the planets aligned and the destiny wanted us here, in Russia. We picked up the visas on Friday and left on Sunday. Just the two of us at the airport, since we had already said goodbye to our families in Mendoza.

The short answer I give when asked why I chose Russia, is that the cost of life here is accessible to us and Russian universities are known to be very good at math and programming. Which we knew since they're always in the top places in programming competitions like ACM-ICPC. The long answer, though, is that it just happened. We saw the opportunity and didn't think much before deciding to take it. If we'd chose to study in Buenos Aires, I'm sure we would've loved it, but the inflation and high prices of the capital would have forced us to go back to our town. So, this was probably our best shot, and I'm very happy here. Although my life is not full of luxuries, I'm thankful for the opportunity this country has given me. This is just the beginning of a long journey, but I'm happy to say we already completed the first milestone: 1.5 year long preparatory course.
